docs/theming.md, before:

# Prez UI Theming

## Quick Start
To get started running your own Prez UI instance, simply run the following to get the starter template, replacing `<project_name>` with your project name (requires NPM installed, (we recommend [pnpm](https://pnpm.io))):

```bash
npx create-prez-app@latest <project_name>
```
*(Note: for pnpm, run `pnpm dlx` instead of `npx`)*

or

```bash
npm create prez-app@latest <project_name>
```

This will download a starter template [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com) project extending Prez UI's [base layer](https://github.com/rdflib/prez-ui/tree/main/packages/prez-ui).

In the project root directory, install with your NPM package manager of choice:

```bash
npm install
```

Then preview your theme by running:

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Tailwind & CSS
Prez UI uses [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com) for most of its styling, which you can use in this starter template to easily style using classes.

To override Prez UI's colour scheme (e.g. `primary`, `secondary`, etc.), or add your own variables to use in Tailwind, simply add a CSS variable of the same name in `assets/css/tailwind.css` under `:root` with its colour values in HSL **without** the `hsl()` function, e.g.:

```CSS
/* assets/css/tailwind.css */
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;

@layer base {
    :root {
        /* define your Tailwind CSS variables (in HSL values without the hsl()) here */
        --primary: 24.6 95% 53.1%;
        --primary-foreground: 60 9.1% 97.8%;
    }
}
```

Then register those variables in `tailwind.config.js` wrapped in the `hsl()` function under `theme.extend.colors`, e.g.:

```javascript
// tailwind.config.js
module.exports = {
    ...
    theme: {
        extend: {
            colors: {
                // add your CSS variables here, e.g.:
                primary: {
                    DEFAULT: "hsl(var(--primary))",
                    foreground: "hsl(var(--primary-foreground))",
                },
            }
        }
    }
    ...
}
```

You can also style your Prez UI theme using normal CSS by adding your styles to `assets/css/theme.css`.

## Extending the base layer
This starter template uses [Nuxt layers](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/layers) to extend upon the base Prez UI layer application, so you only need to customise what you need.

The layers system automatically replaces files of the same name with the same directory structure as previous layers. The files that can be overridden are:

- `components/*` - Extend the default components
- `composables/*` - Extend the default composables
- `layouts/*` - Extend the default layouts
- `pages/*` - Extend the default pages
- `plugins/*` - Extend the default plugins
- `server/*` - Extend the default server endpoints & middleware
- `utils/*` - Extend the default utils
- `nuxt.config.ts` - Extend the default nuxt config
- `app.config.ts` - Extend the default app config

Refer to Prez UI's base layer [source code](https://github.com/rdflib/prez-ui/tree/main/packages/prez-ui) to help you override files.

The most common case of theming Prez UI is adding a header and footer to every page. This can easily be done by copying & overriding `layouts/default.vue` from the base layer and replacing the `<header>` & `<footer>` elements with your own content.

```HTML
<!-- layouts/default.vue -->
<template>
    <div class="flex flex-col min-h-screen">

        <!-- Header -->
        <header>
            <!-- your header content here -->
        </header>
        ...
        <!-- Footer -->
        <footer>
            <!-- your footer content here -->
        </footer>
    </div>
</template>
```

The main navigation can be customised as well in the same file.

## Shadcn Components
Prez UI uses the [prez-components](https://github.com/rdflib/prez-ui/tree/main/packages/prez-components) component library, which is based on the [shadcn-vue](https://www.shadcn-vue.com) component library. Shad comes preinstalled in this starter template (`badge`, `button`, `input` & `pagination` are included as the base layer requires them), but if you need to add more shadcn components in your theme, run a command like the following to add the component:

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest add button
```
*(Note: for pnpm, run `pnpm dlx` instead of `npx`)*

These components are stored in `components/ui`, which should be kept separate to your theme's components.

## Other helpful tips
Assets such as images should go in the `public/` directory. You can also replace the favicon in this directory by providing your own with the same name and file extension.

`nuxt.config.ts` contains some useful config for customising your Prez UI theme further. Here you can customise the document title, add external CSS (such as fonts), the base URL, and more. See [Nuxt Configuration](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/nuxt-config) for more details.

```typescript
// nuxt.config.ts example
export default defineNuxtConfig({
    ...
    app: {
        head: {
            title: "<document_title>",
            link: [
                { rel: "stylesheet", href: "<stylesheet_url>", type: "text/css" },
            ]
        }
    },
    ...
});
```

Commit message:

Renamed layout components, added nuxt color-mode dependency to create-prez-app template

docs/theming.md, after:

# Prez UI Theming

## Quick Start
To get started running your own Prez UI instance, simply run the following to get the starter template, replacing `<project_name>` with your project name (requires NPM installed, (we recommend [pnpm](https://pnpm.io))):

```bash
npx create-prez-app@latest <project_name>
```
*(Note: for pnpm, run `pnpm dlx` instead of `npx`)*

or

```bash
npm create prez-app@latest <project_name>
```

This will download a starter template [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com) project extending Prez UI's [base layer](https://github.com/rdflib/prez-ui/tree/main/packages/prez-ui).

In the project root directory, install with your NPM package manager of choice:

```bash
npm install
```

Then preview your theme by running:

```bash
npm run dev
```

## Tailwind & CSS
Prez UI uses [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com) for most of its styling, which you can use in this starter template to easily style using classes.

To override Prez UI's colour scheme (e.g. `primary`, `secondary`, etc.), or add your own variables to use in Tailwind, simply add a CSS variable of the same name in `assets/css/tailwind.css` under `:root` with its colour values in HSL **without** the `hsl()` function, e.g.:

```CSS
/* assets/css/tailwind.css */
@tailwind base;
@tailwind components;
@tailwind utilities;

@layer base {
    :root {
        /* define your Tailwind CSS variables (in HSL values without the hsl()) here */
        --primary: 24.6 95% 53.1%;
        --primary-foreground: 60 9.1% 97.8%;
    }
}
```

Then register those variables in `tailwind.config.js` wrapped in the `hsl()` function under `theme.extend.colors`, e.g.:

```javascript
// tailwind.config.js
module.exports = {
    ...
    theme: {
        extend: {
            colors: {
                // add your CSS variables here, e.g.:
                primary: {
                    DEFAULT: "hsl(var(--primary))",
                    foreground: "hsl(var(--primary-foreground))",
                },
            }
        }
    }
    ...
}
```

You can also style your Prez UI theme using normal CSS by adding your styles to `assets/css/theme.css`.

## Extending the base layer
This starter template uses [Nuxt layers](https://nuxt.com/docs/getting-started/layers) to extend upon the base Prez UI layer application, so you only need to customise what you need.

The layers system automatically replaces files of the same name with the same directory structure as previous layers. The files that can be overridden are:

- `components/*` - Extend the default components
- `composables/*` - Extend the default composables
- `layouts/*` - Extend the default layouts
- `pages/*` - Extend the default pages
- `plugins/*` - Extend the default plugins
- `server/*` - Extend the default server endpoints & middleware
- `utils/*` - Extend the default utils
- `nuxt.config.ts` - Extend the default nuxt config
- `app.config.ts` - Extend the default app config

Refer to Prez UI's base layer [source code](https://github.com/rdflib/prez-ui/tree/main/packages/prez-ui) to help you override files.

> [!WARNING]
> Override files at your own risk, as copying code means that future updates to overridden components must be done manually

The most common case of theming Prez UI is adding a header and footer to every page. This can easily be done by copying & overriding `layouts/default.vue` from the base layer and replacing the `<header>` & `<footer>` elements with your own content.

```HTML
<!-- layouts/default.vue -->
<template>
    <div class="flex flex-col min-h-screen">

        <!-- Header -->
        <header>
            <!-- your header content here -->
        </header>
        ...
        <!-- Footer -->
        <footer>
            <!-- your footer content here -->
        </footer>
    </div>
</template>
```

The main navigation can be customised as well in the same file.

## Shadcn Components
Prez UI uses the [prez-components](https://github.com/rdflib/prez-ui/tree/main/packages/prez-components) component library, which is based on the [shadcn-vue](https://www.shadcn-vue.com) component library. Shad comes preinstalled in this starter template (`badge`, `button`, `input` & `pagination` are included as the base layer requires them), but if you need to add more shadcn components in your theme, run a command like the following to add the component:

```bash
npx shadcn-vue@latest add button
```
*(Note: for pnpm, run `pnpm dlx` instead of `npx`)*

These components are stored in `components/ui`, which should be kept separate to your theme's components.

## Other helpful tips
Assets such as images should go in the `public/` directory. You can also replace the favicon in this directory by providing your own with the same name and file extension.

`nuxt.config.ts` contains some useful config for customising your Prez UI theme further. Here you can customise the document title, add external CSS (such as fonts), the base URL, and more. See [Nuxt Configuration](https://nuxt.com/docs/api/nuxt-config) for more details.

```typescript
// nuxt.config.ts example
export default defineNuxtConfig({
    ...
    app: {
        head: {
            title: "<document_title>",
            link: [
                { rel: "stylesheet", href: "<stylesheet_url>", type: "text/css" },
            ]
        }
    },
    ...
});
```
